_Main

Computers are everywhere.  In our pockets.  On our desks.  In our
laps.  But few people actually know what's going on in a
computer. It's a bit of a mystical thing: you press the on button, and
then you can do anything.  But how are these things possible?
Programs have to be able to interact with a user, but all of the
computers out there are different.  Not to mention programs have to
talk to other programs as well, to make the Internet work.  How do all
of these things happen?  Why is the brand-new computer you just bought
feel as slow as the old one under your desk?

As computers have gotten faster, the interactions between programs
have increased.  So seemingly simple tasks are actually quite complex.
What a tangled web.


----
Kernel

For a computer to be useful, there has to be a program that managed
all of the hardware resources.  This program is traditionally called
the "kernel".  Any program that needs to talk to another program, or
use the computer hardware, must make a request to the kernel.
Depending on what the program needs, different parts of the kernel
will service the request.  These different parts are called "modules".

----
Xorg

The graphics system is called Xorg, and has its roots from the MIT X
Window System project.  Xorg is responsible for performing the actual
drawing-on-the-screen for graphical programs.

----
Chrome

Chrome is a popular internet browser built by Google.  Chrome needs to
talk to the internet to download web pages, as well the graphics
system to display content and react to user actions, like typing and
mouse clicks.  Chrome also runs multiple copies of itself, one per web
page, to prevent the whole thing from crashing if something goes
wrong.  That means Chrome also needs to talk other Chrome processes.

----
Gnome Shell

Gnome is a Desktop Environment, providing the ability to launch
programs from the familiar menu, as well as switching between
graphical applications.  The Shell is the program that provides these
features, such as drawing the background image and fancy transition
effects when you minimize/maximize a program.

----
Gnome Terminal

The Terminal is a program that allows the user to issue commands in a
text-based client, similar to how users interacted with computers
before graphical user interfaces existed at all.

----
RhythmBox

RhythmBox is Gnome's music player.



----
Applications/Databases

Programs need to store data.  Often times, this data needs to be read
and written rapidly.  Programmers have developed "databases",
specialized programs that handle data extremely efficiently.
Databases are used by other programs instead of customized data
handling.  Popular databases include MySQL (typically used in web
development) and SQLite (typically used by smaller programs that have
structured data).

----
Applications/File

Computers operate on files, and sometimes you need to manage lots of
files.  Programs in this category provide features like mass-file-copy
and reading old file formats, as well as identifying files by looking
at fingerprints.

----
Applications/Internet

Web browsers aren't the only internet enabled programs.  Programs in
this category include chat clients, web-based printing, and all of the
supporting libraries.

----
Development/Debug

Debugging information is used by programmers to find out what went
wrong in a program.  Programs in this category are installed either
for use by programmers or by automatic programs that collect error
reports, so that they can be filled out before being sent to the
programmers.

----
Development/Languages

Programming languages are used by programmers to make programs.  Some
programs can't but run without the programming language installed.

----
Development/Libraries

Development libraries are additional libraries used by programmers to
make programs.

----
System Environment/Base

Programs and libraries in this group are part of the core system.
Your computer will not work without them.

----
System Environment/Daemons

Daemons are long-running programs that provide important
services. Examples of daemons include "cron", the
run-a-program-at-a-scheduled-time service.

----
System Environment/Libraries

Additional libraries that are installed to provide common, but not
critical, system services.


----
User Interface/Desktops

Programs in this group provide the familiar "desktop".  You can run
programs using the familiar menus, and drag windows around.

----
User Interface/X

The graphics system is called Xorg, and has its roots from the MIT X
Window System project.  Xorg is responsible for performing the actual
drawing-on-the-screen for graphical programs.

----
User Interface/X Hardware Support

Programs in this group enable all features of your computer's graphics
hardware, like faster 3D graphics.
